Varshik Chebrolu
chebroluvarshik@gmail.com | +1 9706902665 | Denver, Colorado
https://www.linkedin.com/in/varshikchebrolu/ | https://varshikchebrolu.vercel.app/
Summary
Software Engineer with more than 4 years of full-stack development experience. Quick to learn new technologies and proficient in
React, JavaScript, and Agile planning. Excels in collaborative team environments with a strong focus on delivering user-centric
solutions. Handled the designing of new architecture and implemented the process to improve the efficiency of media rendering by at
least 25%.
Skills
Programming Languages: JavaScript (ES6), Typescript, Java, Python
Frontend Technologies: React, Next JS, HTML5, CSS3, Redux, Bootstrap, Material UI, Angular
Backend Technologies: NodeJS, NestJS, Spring boot, RESTful APIs, Sequelize
Databases and Cloud: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, AWS (EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cognito, RDS, S3)
Tools and Platforms: Git, Docker, Jira, Jenkins, Maven, VS Code, Postman, Agile Methodology, Scrum
Work Experience
DISH Networks Nov 2024
–
Present
Software Engineer II Englewood, CO
Payment Tokenization:
◦ Developed a new payment module using iframe to support multiple payment methods, ensuring secure handling of sensitive
information through Basis Theory tokenization.
◦ Led the integration of the iframe-based solution across 5+ teams and various applications, streamlining adoption of the new
payment system organization-wide.
◦ Proactively fixed defects and resolved integration issues, maintaining a 99% success rate across all applications migrated to
the new payment process.
Spectra Media Collective Oct 2022 –Oct 2024
Software Developer New York, NY
◦ Developed responsive UI with React, Typescript, NextJs achieving 98% user-satisfaction score and user-base growth in 3
months.
◦ Carried out the image resource handling architecture to operate on over 20,000 objects and improved data retrieval efficiency
by 25% using PostgreSQL, NestJs and S3.
◦ Enhanced user satisfaction through UX/UI design improvements and reduced bug fix time by 30% by continuous integration.
◦ Automated deployments and integration workflows with AWS Cloud Pipeline, reducing release cycles to 1 week.
Clearwater Analytics Jun 2022
–
Aug 2022
Software Developer Intern Boise, ID
◦ Co-developed a version management tool for 3 organizational applications within 6 weeks using Angular, JavaScript, and
Bootstrap.
◦ Designed and deployed RESTful APIs with Kotlin and Bitbucket, performed unit and integration testing using Jenkins,
increasing bug resolution rate by 20% and ensuring 80% code coverage.
Infosys Ltd. Jul 2019
-
Jul 2021
Full-Stack Developer Hyderabad, India
◦ Worked with senior developers and UX designers to identify business requirements, boosting solution delivery by 20% .
◦ Implemented and integrated over 30 interactive elements in an e-commerce single-page web application using React and
JavaScript.
◦ Optimized data rendering and loading reducing page load time to under 3 seconds and delivering a seamless user experience.
Projects
Automated Testing Approaches for Java Projects [Java, Evosuite, Randoop, Software testing] Feb 2022
◦ Conducted a comparative study on 30 open-source small-scale Java projects using automation testing tools.
◦ Validated more than 500 test cases for all classes on each project, evaluating results on time and speed.
Legan Chess Game [React, JavaScript, Java, Object Oriented Design Principles] Sept 2021
◦ Developed user friendly chess interface using React, JavaScript and pieces movements in Java.
◦ Maintained real time interaction using web sockets between the UI and services with less than 1 sec delay.
Education
Colorado State University Aug 2021
–
May 2023
MS in Computer Science Fort Collins, CO
Certifications
• LinkedIn certified Front-end developer
